Well, let's go back to our push.js,
I think that this part is okay.
But now the last part is that we
need to actually send that data,
the details that we have to our server.
Okay, so that's the last part.
So how are we going to do that?
If you look at our server,
our server already has an endpoint for
a little API that says, /push/subscribe.
There is expecting the data
to arrive as json.
So what we need to do is make a fetch,
from our client to that server,
okay, make sense?
But before doing that,
let's see how are we doing so far.
So I'm going to just do
a console log of the details and
maybe call my log API then say
that Web Push, subscribed.
Check to see if we are good at this point.
What happens if you subscribe
to the pushManager twice?
Nothing, you will get
the same data in return So
every time you're getting to the website,
you are subscribing again.
Okay, it will give you the same details.
I will explain why that might
be useful at some point.
Okay, well, let's see what happens.
So I will refresh here.
Be careful,
we need to check that maybe for later,
that we have update on reload so
when we change the service worker,
we will get that.
And now if I try the push that by the way
I think I didn't add it to the HTML.
So we can call this that was in the HTML.
The only thing that I'm I need to do,
I didn't do this, is that by default,
by CSS, my code is hiding the push because
maybe the push is not there, right?
So what we need to do is
to change that from CSS.
Yeah, I'm not using any library,
any reactive library,
so plain JavaScript, Vanilla JavaScript.
I'm not sure if you're rusty with that or
not, it's simple anyway,
we just need to change CSS style, or
we can do a class wherever you want.
So, we have a button that is hidden,
we have a whole section that is hidden for
push.
So what we need to do, we can check
that this push.js file in the HTML.
It has a defer property.
Because of that, we know for
sure that the DOM is ready.
I don't need to wait for DOM content
loaded to do something like that.
So that means that here,
we can actually check if the API is ready,
showNotification in
ServiceWorkerRegistrationPrototype and
here we can go and enable the section.
Does it make sense?
So it means we Push is available,
so am going to enable
the section from CSS,
or JavaScript plus CSS.
So, we're going to getElementById,
push.style.display = block.
If this was a reactive library, well, I
just change a Boolean and a flag that will
trigger re-rendering and it will
render that option, okay, make sense?
Do you have any questions so far?
>> I'm getting a
ServiceWorkerRegistrationPrototype is not
defined.
>> You've done prototype [CROSSTALK]
>> Dot also.
But it's weird that you're getting an
error on that one because that one should
be brady also.
But, yeah, those prototypes
should work anyway, like this.
Let's try to keep this consistent.
Another way is to check for,
if you look here, what else you can check?
You have also PushManager.
So also you can check if PushManager
is available in the window object.
That's another way, okay,
to check if the PushManager is available.
Okay, so let's see now.
I have now my section at the bottom that
says Push Notifications,
okay, makes sense?
If I try this on my IOS simulator
that today is not supporting the API,
Localhost4000, I shouldn't see
the Push API because it's not there yet.
On the rest of the browsers today,
it's available.
Remember, for those of you on a Mac,
if you're using Safari,
you need to be on Ventura.
If not, isn't gonna work, okay?
So if you do an upgrade yet,
it's not gonna work.
You can use Chrome or
Firefox to test this.
So actually, if I click Subscribe,
I'm getting the permission dialogue for
local host, Allow.
And after a while,
I'm getting the details in the console.
So the first step is there.
But if I try Firefox, let me try the same,
Websites on Firefox.
I'm opening the console.
I have Push Notification,
Subscribe dialogue, Allow.
And after a while I'm getting
PushSubscription detail.
The endpoint points to another URL
that it's within Mozilla's boundaries.
It's updates.push.services.mozilla.com,
so that's the endpoint.
So why it's called endpoint?
Because if you wanna send
the message to that user,
you will need to send an HTTP
package to that endpoint.
And then the payload,
the body of that request
needs to be encrypted
with your private key.
That's how the handshake works.
The security handshake work between your
server, your website and the push server.
Okay, make sense?
>> Question?
>> Yeah.
>> The public private key we created,
is it specific to any browser or
is it application?
>> No, it's per your app, actually.
You need to save it every time you
create a new pair, it's a new pair,
it's a random pair.
Of course,
between them they're not random, but
then you can use the same on any browser.
And the idea is that you will use the same
for the rest of the life of your web app.
If you change those keys,
then it will be like a separate app.
From a push server point of view,
you are at different app, so
you will lose control of sending
messages to your old users.
>> The question came because we are
sending it to different endpoints, right,
one for the fcs.google,
another one is for the Mozilla.
>> Yeah.
>> They were same public,
>> They have their own databases,
their own implementations of the spec and
they will all save your public key
attached to your origin as well.
We're on Safari, Safari on Ventura, okay?
So I will open the console as well,
Subscribe.
And it says, look at that.
It says that, the Provided
applicationServerKey does not match
the key in the existing subscription.
What's that?
It seems like I have already subscribed
the user to this port number.
And it says, you already have a
subscription key and it's not the same, so
I'm not going to register this.
Can this happen?
Yes.
What can you do about that?
Actually on Safari today in
the current implementation, nothing
This is like the example that you
mentioned recently, you change the key.
>> Do you mean you as the application
engineer or you as the user of Safari?
>> Well, both to be honest,
>> [LAUGH]
>> I mean, as an application engineer
here, yeah,
you can change the port number, okay?
And to see what happens if
you change your port number?
>> No, I meant to clear out that
current registration or something.
>> Well, that's cool, how can we see here.
Well, here you can see work,
what can I do in Safari, okay?
Where can I see the details for
this website?
So I have a bookmark, share,
reload, compared with Chrome,
the UX that Safari has
it's actually weird.
I mean, you can go to Settings, okay.
In Settings, you can check Websites,
on Websites, okay,
we can say, okay, what do we wanna see?
Notifications, okay, here are different
notifications that we need
to find local host here that says,
allows and I'm going to, I can deny them.
That's revoking permission.
Why can't remove them?
Remove will actually
remove the subscription.
Yeah, probably who is
going to get into here?
No, it's actually pretty difficult,
right, to actually get there.
I think that Chrome has the better UX and
Firefox as well.
Because on Firefox,
you can also click on the details, okay?
And everything you have
here like the permissions
the UX feels better, okay,
in terms of how that works.
So now I deleted that,
let's see what happens if I try again.
Now, I'm seeing again,
this is the dialog for Safari,
it's different from the other dialogues,
okay?
It's different.
If I allow this,
I should get in the console at one point,
the endpoint that points
your web.push apple.com.
So we have the three browsers
working with our code right now.